README Program 4

Logic:

Use three semaphores.  One for the the feeding pots, 
one for the mother eagle and one for the waiting.
The semaphore used on mother eagle is a binary semaphore.
The semaphore used on the feeding pots is a counting semaphore.
The semaphore used on the number of waiting eagles is a counting semaphore.
We created one thread for the mother 
eagle and one thread for each baby eagle.
The mother eagle thread does the following:
sleep until baby eagle wakes her
fills pots
and goes back to sleep
This repeats for the number for feedings specified in the input argument.

The baby eagle threads does the following:

get ready to eat
eat from a full feeding pot
finish eating
play after eating
This sequences of actions will repeat 
based on how many times the feeding pots get filled.


One baby eagle will wakeup the mother eagle when the baby 
eagle is hungry and the mother change from sleeping
to filling the empty pots.  For the ready to eat phase, 
a mutex lock is placed just before the check of the conditionals.
The baby eagle has 4 conditions to check before getting fed.
If the mother is not retired and the pots are full then the baby eagle may eat, 
the counting semaphore of pots is decremented and the mutex is unlocked.
If the mother is not retired and not already awoken 
and the pots are empty then the baby is placed on a wait, the waiting
semaphores is incrememted and the mutex is unlocked.  
If the mother is not already woken then the mother semaphore is incremented
and the baby eagle is placed on wait just like the above.
If the mother is retired and the pots are empty, 
then the mutex and unlock the baby eagle thread is to exit.
The game will end after the limit of the number feedings have been reached and all
the feeding pots filled from that feeding is empty.

Why does my program work?
1. This situation will not happen because the baby
eagles can only be started if there is a full pot available.

2. This situation cannot happen because the baby eagles are only 
active when a pot is full or they wake the mama eagle to get more.

3. Semaphores are used to only allow a certain number of baby eagles
active at a time and other baby eagles need to wait.

4. A semaphore is used to say only full pots can be eaten from.

5. A semaphore blocks any other baby eagles from using the same one.

6. Only one needs to wake the mother, once she is awake, the others
cannot awaken her through the use of semaphores.

7. The mother eagle cannot run while she is asleep.

8. All the pots are empty, semaphores block babies from eating.

9. Semaphores block babies until each baby has at least one pot to themselves.

10. The mother is blocked from being awake while all pots are full
so she goes to sleep until awoken again.

11. Each baby eagle semaphore needs a certain amount of feedings
before the program can terminate.